---
title: 2023 in review
date: 2024-01-05
cover_image: /posts/2023/cover_image.jpeg
---

This is the first time I've done a year in review. I've really never thought to do it, but I figure it may be interesting to look back on — here goes:

## Work

In January, [Justin](https://twitter.com/jmduke) asked if I'd like to go from irregular/flexible freelancing for [Buttondown](https://buttondown.email) to a steady 10 hours/week as a support engineer — in practice, technical customer support questions, fixing bugs, and working on bigger projects when time allows. So for almost all of 2023 I've been working 7-9am on weekdays, which has been (and continues to be) wonderful and fun. This arrangement in many ways lifted my self-imposed anxiety around freelance work and how it fits into my life as a student, but that is a post for another time.

Over the summer, I also interned at [Locket](https://locket.camera)! (Thank you [Matt](https://twitter.com/thefuturematt) + [Maxi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mdbustos) + rest of the team.) I got to work on the Android platform, which had grown a bit neglected, as one of two engineers working on it. I spent the summer shipping features and improvements to the millions of people that use that app on Android. Not only was the scale of the user base super interesting, but I found the processes and management of the company really, really interesting to observe. There's a ton with setting focus and priorities that I think they're doing right (of course, what do I know — but it _felt_ right at least).

In fact, I've been continuing to work there part-time during the semester, and will continue through the end of next semester in the spring! I've continued to really enjoy it, which is a testament given that working alongside classes has historically been somewhat stressful for me.

However, this semester has been one of the **best** in recent memory in terms of stress. I can't really put my finger on _why_, but I think it was some combination of letting go somewhat of school perfection + fulfilling and flexible arrangements with work alongside school.

## School

I finished up my sophomore year at Tufts University and am now halfway through my junior year!

School is always fine — I have this feeling that my personality/upbringing is well-suited to the skills that school rewards (not to be necessarily confused with actual competency or useful skills). I took CS 40, Machine Structures and Assembly Language, in the spring which was probably the hardest and most time-consuming class I have taken thus far at Tufts, and also the best class I have taken thus far at Tufts. In the fall I took Algorithms, which was a bit less hard and not as much my cup of tea. I also took two German classes in the fall (towards an eventual German minor), which I think has livened up my native German a good amount.

I also became the Head of Engineering for [JumboCode](https://ben.page/jumbocode) for this school year, which was been a wonderful experience! I taught workshops in the fall for new developers to learn web development, which _really_ took it out of me for a while, but now I'm coasting and answering questions from teams whenever they have them. Some of my big plans for hosting events have fallen by the wayside in a busy semester, but I'm making plans to hopefully not have that happen as much this upcoming semester.

## Projects

One effect of fulfilling "real" work alongside school means less time for side projects. Tradeoffs! Looking back at the year, I didn't launch anything substantial really — I built projects ([Stickies](https://ben.page/stickies) and [Oatmeal](https://x.com/benborgers/status/1660730463072186370) come to mind), but nothing really got to being launched.

I would loosely like to launch some more projects (in some form) in 2024, but I will not be super hung up if that doesn't end up happening.

## Health

I feel like I'm currently in as good of shape as I've ever been. From April through the end of the year I've been going to the gym 5 times/week and eating relatively well. Nothing crazy, but I feel good and I don't stress about what I'm eating, which are both good feelings.

## Other important stats

- Bubble tea drinks consumed: approximately 60 (yikes)
- Wisdom teeth extracted: 4
- Camera purchases: [3](/scammed)
- Countries: U.S., Canada, Croatia

## Resolutions

- Get better at cooking properly
- Take a [photo of the day](https://photos.ben.page) every day
